---
layout: post
title: ORT
tags: algorithm
---

I came across this term in a console message emitted by git. I searched for it. From the git documentation, it seems like it is one of the strategies related to merging. More about this later.

From there, I went on to my old pursuit of coding problems. I visited <https://hackerearth.com>. I logged in and selected a problem, 'Cyclic Shift', in the section, 'Codemonk'. The problem is listed as the one with 'medium' difficulty. It is related to rotating of bits in a number. The goal seems to be to find the maximum number that can be made, by rotating the bits of the given number.

I selected the programming language for this problem, Lua.

Next, being new to Lua, I went with the sample code shown in the website code editor. Unfortunately, the code editor execution is tied to the input given to the program, for testing the result of the program. As such, other type of execution is not possible.

So, the next step, is to get Lua, for local installation. No Windows installer is available. One has to build Lua from source. Source was downloaded. It needs make. No make was available on Windows. I hit the GNU website for make. Downloaded the source for make. It has to be built. It has .bat file for Windows. Upon executing that, an error was emitted. "MSVC runtime not found". Microsoft VC compiler may be needed. Upon search, I found that, it is installable via VS Code. The installation took some time. After that, I tried to build the make sources. It failed. I need to do the configuration for VC compiler, I think.
