---
layout: post
title: Limitless
tags: movie analysis
---

Some analysis of a movie I have watched some time ago may be due. I watched the movie some 10 years ago. It is an interesting movie. "Limitless". The title is interesting. The concept is so too, the analysis is being posted. The movie stars Bradley Cooper. There is not much on the account of other actors, like, a lead actress, even the lead anti-Hero seems to have a limited role. This observation will be analyzed as well.

The movie starts, I think, with the lead actor, the protagonist, not having much hope. Then, he finds some drug, takes it and starts discovering his abilities. The abilities are shown to hit the 'limitless' levels, with the main character reading, taking in information at a very rapid rate. And, then, using that information to gain in stock markets. I think, the main character is shown to predict the stock market movement well after taking in all the information. This seems to be the main concept of the movie, the 'limitless' word applying to the limitless ability of the human mind to take in information and to use it. As such, this view needs to be torn down a little. The ability to take in information at a rapid rate goes well with the concept of 'limitless'. But, the speed of that shown in the movie is far from real. In reality, the actual speed of information capture is far higher, a guess would be some 1000x higher. The basic concept can be gleaned from some reference to Swami Vivekananda. He is described to have been able to grasp a book by preceiving it, by just holding it in front of him. Then, one can ask him about some specific word from some page, and he would tell you that. He may have been described to hold the book in front of him for an hour. Although, I think, in reality, an advanced being may be able to grasp a book in under a second, the things required may be, a background of the matter in the head and the right time. A very sharp perception may be defined in such terms.

Next, the second part of the 'limitless' capability shown in the movie comes under scrutiny. The main character gains from the stock market, after taking in a large amount of information. The monetary gain does not suit well with the 'limitless' capability. What 'limitless' might indicate is 'infinite' capability of wealth. Of course, the concept would be hard to show in the movie.

There is one villain in the movie. He is shown to pursue the main character, in order to get the drug from him, to become 'limitless' himself. It may be obvious that, the villain wants 'limitless' money. It may come closer to the real life attempts at getting near such individuals in the world. One may believe that, one may be able to "use" such an individual. But, do you think that "using" the individual who is 'limitless' is possible? It may not be possible. Such an individual, in reality, may be able to perceive a large amount of information, from the world, and guess certain things, including the threats on him. "Using" him may be a term worth laughing at, as, such a person will most likely will have already "used" the person who is trying to "use" him, if "use" is the word to be used for such a 'limitless' person's action.

There is no lead actress in the movie. It may be obvious that, such a 'limitless' person may be acting alone, and might not need a female companion. As such, the 'limitless' concept might indicate lack of female companion. And, I also think that, such a 'limitless' capability is obtained by a person who goes through a break in a relationship with a woman.
 